
For points in the "what" section, you should know their definition, motivation and basic idea. For points in the "how" section, you should try to find a real example and solve it by hand (or with the help of a physical calculator).

What

1. Frequent itemset mining: frequent/closed/max/sequential pattern, association rule.
    frequent pattern: An itemset X is frequent if the support of X is no less than a minsup threshpld(delta)
    closed patterns: A pattern(itemset) X is closed if X is frequent, and there exists no super-pattern Y>X, with the sma support as X.
                 直接超集都不等于它本身的支持度。
    max patterns: A pattern X is a max-pattern if X is frequent and there exists no frequent super-pattern Y>X 元素最多的频繁项集合
    sequential pattern
    association rule: if people are buying X, what is the suppot and confidence people will buy the itemset Y.
    association rule mining: Find all the rules, x->y, with minimum support and confidence.

    support X U Y :X,Y共同出现的次数
    confidence sup(X U Y) /Sup(X): X,Y 共同出现的次数/X单独出现的次数


2. Why do we need null invariant measures? Name some null-variant and null-invariant methods.

3. given a transaction database, what's the relationship between the number of closed-patterns and that of max-patterns? (hint: think about their definitions)

4. Downward Closure Property; Apriori, FP-growth algorithm;

5. various constraints: (anti-)monotonic, succinct, convertible, ... Think about their definition and examples.

6. multi-level/negative/quantitative/compressed Patterns. Think about the relationship of supports of multi-level patterns.

7. sequential pattern mining algorithms (basic idea): GSP, SPADE, PrefixSpan, CloSpan. What is the Pseudo-projection trick in PrefixSpan?

8. graph pattern mining algorithms (basic idea): Apriori, gSpan, CloseGraph

9. phrase mining, software bug mining.

How

1. Given a transaction database, find out all frequent/closed/max patterns or association rules.

2. Given a transaction database, find out all sequential patterns.

3. Given a transaction database, try to do Apriori algorithm by hand (refer to the example in lecture slides). Think about: how many times do we need to scan the whole database for pattern support? (hint: For example, after the first union step we have all the candidate 2-itemsets, we scan the db once to get all their supports to decide which ones we prune).

4. Calculate lift and χ2

5. Given a graph database and several subgraphs, calculate the support of each subgraph (only consider topological structure).
